The existing system of opening a bank account is a tedious multilevel process which requires human interactions at each level and 
is time consuming. With time, this may lead to human errors and may result in lower productivity. To save time, we can digitize the 
complete process of bank account creation using latest biometric technologies. Fingerprint and Iris recognition are some of the most 
prominent biometric methods which are used in the present-day world for data collection. 

A customer would have given their fingerprint or Iris scan data while generating a Social Security Number (SSN) whose data would be 
stored and maintained at a unified location. When a customer approaches a bank to open an account, the bank will have to only scan the 
customer’s Iris or take the fingerprint and send the details to centralized database to get the necessary information about that customer. 
The data received from the unified database would be locally stored and then displayed to the customer. 
Upon validation check, only relevant details of the customer will be populated on the online account creation page. The bank will retrieve 
data from a third-party vendor and may outsource the data management to an external businessperson, but holds the authorization on 
data security. Since, we are only re-populating an already authorized and validated data again on a different webpage, there is no need 
to cross verify customer documents again. In this way we can eliminate human errors during data entry, save time at both ends, 
reduce cost and resource count. In future, if a customer wants to open a different account type, only the type of account must 
be updated with the bank, which avoids repetitive documentation check.

Keywords: Paperless, Iris recognition, Social Security Number, Fingerprint, Biometrics, Database.

References
Rakhi C. Motwani, F.C. Harris, Kostas E. Bekris (2010) 7th IEEE
A Proposed Digital Rights Management System for 3D Graphics Using Biometric Watermarks
Amit Verma (2013) 

A Multi-Layer Bank Security System
Kan-Ru Chen, Chia-Te Chou, Sheng-Wen Shih (2007) 
Feature Selection for Iris Recognition with AdaBoost
